---
layout: post
title: "Project SW Odyssey Reflection"
author: JC Ntambara
---

### My Learning Experience Throughout This Project


Throughout this project, I've gained a lot of rewarding experiences ranging from requirements gathering, problem solving, collaboration, conflict resolution, and being able to think beyond doing just class projects. The ability to work with Cynthia and Liz to gather requirements for their Diversion program has provided me with some good experiences. I learned how to listen to the clients attentively to make sure my team and I undestand what the organization wanted implemented. There has been some ups and downs throughout the process due to the client changing requirements in every meeting, and keeping up with all the changes while making sure all the requirements made sense strengthened my way of approaching work. Gathering requirements requires a lot of attention and asking a lot of questions, and I personally developed that throughout all the client meetings because I had to step out every time to ask relevant questions that moved the meeting forward even when things didn't make sense. 

Additionally, this project taught me problem solving. Every project requires some level of problem solving, but this project was a special case since it was designed for a new program that Family Promise of Pulaski County is initiating. The client didn't have an specific idea of how they wanted the website to look like. Therefore, as a team, we had to talk about how we were going to go about creating the design through moqups and made sure we understood how each piece was going to work. Throughout that process, I learned the ability to resolve complex problems by defining what the needs are, how the needs can be met, and the specific strategies to be employed while designing the solution. 

By working on this project, I also had some benefits of collaborating with my teammates and the clients as well. Working in a team is a crucial part of getting a complex problem that has various pieces to be completed. I gained some experiences while dividing tasks amongst individuals, following up with everyone to make sure I know the progress of everyone, and delegating some work where possible. The process of going from individual to individual back and forth to get updates, and also sharing my updates in regards to what I've been working on so far has been so rewarding and has been a great part of my collaboration in the team. The collaboration with the client was also important because they were other indirect team members sense we had to get their approvals for most of the things we were working on. I would work with them to make sure what we are designing was suitable for their program requirement, and I believe that contributed a lot to my collaboration skills. 

Last but not least, this project has taught me conflict resolution and the ability to expand my knowledge beyond class projects that I've done before. In the project, there has been some situation where hearing from my teammates was a problem. As I mentioned earlier, each individual was assigned something to work on, however, sometimes I would ask for the progress but wouldn't hear from everyone in a timely manner. In the moments where some tasks were urgently needed, I would let the specific individual know that I was going to work on their task and then delegate something new to work on. Besides problem solving, I gained the ability to work on a project that is not just limited within the classroom scope. Working with the NGO helped me undestand the process of gathering information and turning the information into a working website.

Overall, this project was a great learning experience, and I enjoyed meeting our clients and showing them what we've been able to implement. Even if the whole project might not be the accurate representation of what the work in the outside world looks like, but it resembles the process in general. Gathering client informations, writing user stories, dividing up tasks, creating issues, user experience design, and many others are some of the things that many development teams do. Therefore, this project expanded on that aspect. 